Basic Mechanics:

Percentile Rolls:

Generic Percentile Simulationist Game (GPSG) uses d10s for most rolls. For the purposes of percentile rolls, the first die you roll is the tens digit of your roll while the second is the ones digit. A result of 10 on a d10 is considered to be 0 and if your ones digit is also 10, the result is 100.

Example:
Firstname rolls 2 on their tens digit and 5 on their ones digit meaning the result of their roll is 25.

Tests:

	When attempting a task in which success or failure matters, the GM may have you make a percentile roll to see how well you succeeded or failed. Take the attribute being tested and apply all modifiers such as skills, bonuses, and penalties to see what you must roll equal to or under on the percentile roll to succeed. This is the target number (TN).
	To determine degrees of success (DoS) or failure (DoF), take the difference between the tens digit of the TN and the tens digit of your roll, adding 1. If the TN or your roll somehow has 3 digits, add an additional 10 (or 20, 30, etc…). Unless otherwise stated, DoS/DoF have no mechanical effect. If the GM decides to have DoS/DoF matter, refer to the chart below.

Degrees of Success or Degrees of Failure
Additional Effects
1 to 2
Little to none, such as completing a task slightly faster or making little progress on a task.
3 to 4
Noticeable, such as getting a close to perfect grade on an exam (High B/Low A) or almost losing your grip while climbing.
5 or more
Quite noticeable, such as delivering a perfect speech or cutting yourself while cooking.


Example:
	Firstname attempts to kick in a sturdy door. This is a standard (+0) test. Firstname’s Strength attribute is 50 and their Athletics skill is 6 (+30) meaning the TN is 80. Firstname rolls a 47 on the percentile test succeeding with 5 DoS, kicking in the door with a single blow. Normally attempting to kick in a door is a Simple Action but due to the DoS, it may be considered a Free Action.
Contested Tests

	When something calls for a contested test everyone involved rolls a percentile die and compares it to the TN (adding up all their modifiers as usual). Whoever has the highest DoS wins. If net DoS matters, the winner subtracts the loser’s DoS from their DoS. In the case of a tie, whoever had the highest TN wins with 1 DoS. If the TNs were equal, whoever has the highest relevant skill rank wins. If it’s still a tie, the highest relevant attribute wins. If there is somehow still a tie, those that tied roll again, adding the DoS/100 to their previous DoS.

Attributes

	Attributes are the raw potential one has to accomplish a task. They are the base number modifiers are added to when determining TN. They main attributes are: Agility (Agi), Charisma (Cha), Endurance (End), Intelligence (Int), Perception (Per), Plot Importance (Plot)*, Strength (Str) and Willpower (Wil). There are two additional attributes, Melee (Mel) and Ranged (Ran), that are derived from Agility, Strength, and Perception. Melee is equal to the average of a character’s Agility and Strength (rounded up) and Ranged is equal to the average of Agility and Perception (rounded up). Some mechanics refer to an “attribute bonus.” This is the tens digit of the attribute.
*Plot Importance and any mechanics referring to it are optional. However, it’s probably a good idea to allow it for player characters and important non-player characters. Characters have a number of Plot points equal to their Plot bonus. These points are replenished every session and can be used to re-roll any roll you make, make one of your damage die explode, remove 2 increments of fatigue, reduce the damage you take from a single instance by 10, ignore the unskilled penalty for a single test, or increase your DoS by 1/reduce your DoF by 1. You may also permanently reduce your Plot Importance by 10 to cheat death (but almost certainly still being seriously injured). Important characters typically have between 30 to 50 Plot Importance.

Skills

	Skills represent the training and/or experience one has in a specific subject. When determining TN, you receive a bonus equal 5 times the rank of the relevant skill. If a task requires more than basic understanding of a subject and you do not possess the skill at the rank of 0 or higher, you instead receive a -20 penalty. While the list below does not include every skill known to man, it should be extensive enough to cover most situations that arise during gameplay.
Skills that have the (Specific) tag are used when no skill or combination of skills covers a certain task that is being attempted. For example, if you wanted to pick a lock, you’d most likely use the Trade (Locksmith) skill.
Skill List:


Animal Handling - Usually Intelligence. Handling animals. Typically does not cover specific knowledge relating to animals.
Ex: Knowing how to train a dog but not knowing the finer details of canine physiology.


Athletics - Usually Strength or Toughness. Noncombat physical feats that primarily require strength and/or endurance involving most of the body.
Ex: Climbing, Swimming, Kicking in doors.


Charm - Usually Charisma. Making people like you, see your point of view, or at the very least hate you less.


Control - Willpower. Clearing your mind, staying calm, not cracking under pressure.
Ex: Resisting suppression, torture, and temptation.


Deception - Usually Charisma or Intelligence. Making up and delivering not the truth.


Defense - Usually Agility (Special). Every rank in the defense skill adds a -5 modifier to the TN of attack tests targeting you. This skill is also used to avoid effects that cover large areas.

When defending against melee attacks or ranged attacks in melee range, the Unarmed skill or a Melee Weapon skill can be used in place of Defense.


Gymnastics - Usually Agility. Noncombat physical feats that primarily require coordination and fine movements involving most of the body.
Ex: Keeping your balance, Contortion, Acrobatics.


Insight - Usually Perception. Determining someone’s intentions.
Ex: Notice that someone is attempting to deceive you or engage in hostilities.


Intimidation - Usually Willpower. Imposing power upon/threatening others in order to make them submit to your demands.


Investigation- Usually Intelligence. Acquiring information through thoughtful examination, questioning, and critical thinking, especially to discover truth.


Knowledge (Specific)* - Usually Intelligence. Learned information about a specific subject.
Ex: Chemistry, Mechanics, History, Software, Zoology, etc…


Medicine - Usually Intelligence. Utilizing your knowledge of health and wellbeing (allopathic and naturopathic) to administer first aid, help cure diseases/illnesses and perform surgery.


Navigation - Usually Intelligence or Perception. Your ability to navigate through given terrain, plot routes, and to avoid becoming lost.


Notice - Usually Perception. Your perceptive abilities (sight, sound, taste, scent, touch). 
Ex: Spotting a hidden enemy or object.


Sleight of Hand - Usually Agility. The speed and skill of the hand when performing actions that demand fine motor control.
Ex: Picking pockets, slipping out of cuffs, fast draw.


Stealth - Usually Agility. Both to move quietly and carefully in order to avoid being seen/heard or simply carrying out an action secretly.


Survival - Usually Perception or Intelligence. Knowing how to prepare food, collect water, and live outdoors without the aid of finely crafted tools, the aid of civilization or a potential power source.


Tactics - Usually Intelligence or Perception. Ability to plan and execute complex martial strategy in order to achieve a specific outcome.


Trade (Specific)* - Varies. The ability to perform a specific task that isn’t covered under any of the other skills.
Ex: Homemaker, Mechanic, Locksmith, Bassist, Merchant, etc…


Unarmed - Usually Melee. Your martial ability without a weapon at hand. Unarmed combatants can still make use of makeshift weapons found in the moment while utilizing this skill.


Vehicle (Specific)* - Usually Perception or Agility. Operating a vehicle.
Ex: Bikes, Trains, Aircraft, Animals, Passenger (includes most Trucks), Tracked, etc…


Weapon (Specific)* - Usually Melee or Ranged. The use of and basic knowledge regarding a type of weapon.
Ex: Polearms, Swords, Clubs, Handguns (includes Submachine Guns), Long Guns (includes Carbines), Knives, Bows, Launchers, Crew-served Weapons, etc…

	*Specific skills should not be any more broad than their respective examples.










Skill Overlap/Similar Skills

	Due to the large amount of skills in the system there are quite a lot of situations where several skills could be used to accomplish a task. In these cases the skill most relevant to the specific task should be used, with those attempting to use a similar skill receiving a penalty to their TN depending on how closely related their skill is to the one required. A closely related skill may have a 0 to -10 penalty, a somewhat related skill may have a -20 penalty, and a barely related skill may have a -30 or greater penalty.

Tasks Requiring Multiple Skills

	Sometimes a task may outright require multiple skills to accomplish such as defeating a lock with complex physical and electronic security measures. In these cases two or more separate tests are made (with their respective modifiers) and the DoS/DoF of the tests are added together with every DoF canceling out 2 DoS to determine net DoS/DoF. 
However, the GM may decide a task is so complex that the failure of any test to any degree results in a failed attempt.

Example Scenario

Firstname is trying to open a locked door with complex mechanical and electronic security systems. Firstname’s Intelligence is 50, Trade: Locksmith skill is 6, Knowledge: Software skill is 6, and they have the appropriate equipment to attempt the task.
Trade: Locksmith is exactly the skill required for defeating the physical portion of the door so that test is made with no penalty while the Knowledge: Software test is done at a -20 penalty due to the skill required for the electronic portion being Knowledge: Electronic Security. 
The mechanical and electronic portions of the task are equally complex (-30) meaning the TN of the Trade: Locksmith test is 50 and the TN of the Knowledge: Software test is 30. Due to the complexity of the security system as a whole, the GM decides that failing either test results in a failed attempt.
Firstname rolls a 31 on their Trade: Locksmith test succeeding by 3 DoS but rolls a 38 on their Knowledge: Software test failing by 1 DoF. Their attempt fails but fortunately the alarms do not activate and they may try again.

Quickstart

Condensed Character Creation:

25 in each main attribute.
Distribute 40 points among main attributes.
You may reduce up to 4 main attributes to 20 and distribute the points to any other main attribute.
No attribute can be above 40 before xp is spent.
Any 6 skills at rank 0.
Any 4 skills at rank 2. 
Any 2 skills at rank 4.
Any 2 Knowledge skills at rank 0.
Before xp is spent, you have the Language talent in a number of languages equal to your IntBonus-1. You have a skill rank of 4 in these languages. You may trade a language for any skill at rank 2 but must have at least 1 language.
Starting xp is 2000.
Attributes cost 100xp per point to raise up to 40, afterwards it is 200xp per point up to 50.
Skills cost 100xp for rank 0. Afterwards the cost is equal to 50 multiplied by the rank being bought. You must possess the previous rank of a skill to purchase the next one.
Tier 1 talents cost 200xp, tier 2 talents cost 400xp, and tier 3 talents cost 600xp.
Body parts have health equal to WilBonus+EndBonus.
Most damage is reduced by EndBonus/2.
Initiative is 1d10+AgiBonus+PerBonus.
Add your MelBonus/2 or RanBonus/2 to the damage of their respective attacks. This is usually not added to the damage of weapons that affect large areas like explosives.
Talents

Resistance (Specific), Tier 1 - +10 bonus to tests made to resist specific effects like cold, heat, poisons (also covers disease and radiation), and fear (also covers intimidation and suppression). This talent may be bought up to 3 times for a specific effect.
Immunity (Specific), Tier 3, Requires 3 levels of Resistance for the specific effect - Any tests you make to resist the effect you purchased this talent for automatically succeed.
I’m Up! He Sees Me! I’m Down!, Tier 1 - Once per round you may move into/out of cover or the prone position as a Free Action.
Dodge, Tier 1, Requires “I’m Up! He Sees Me! I’m Down!” - All tests to hit you have a penalty equal to your AgiBonus. You receive a bonus to Evasion tests equal to your AgiBonus.
Improved Dodge, Tier 2, Requires “Dodge,” 35 Agility, Rank 3 Defense - The penalty and bonus Dodge provides is now equal to 2xAgiBonus.
Masterful Evasion, Tier 3, Requires “Improved Dodge” and 40 Agility -  The penalty and bonus Dodge provides is now equal to 4xAgiBonus. You do not need to spend your Reaction in order to attempt to evade AoEs. For the purposes of evading AoEs, you may take 12 fatigue instead of having movement leftover or a movement action available. You still may not move more than 12xAgiBonus in a round
Keen Sense (Specific), Tier 1 -  +10 to Perception based tests with a specific sense. You may purchase this talent once for each sense.
That Don’t Seem Right, Tier 1, Requires Rank 4 in Notice or Insight - Reroll a Perception based test once with a -30 penalty. You may purchase this talent twice to reduce the penalty to -20.
Alert, Tier 1 - You halve fatigue penalties to Perception based tests. You only suffer a -15 to Perception based tests that do not require sight while asleep.
Hyperalert, Tier 3, Requires “Alert,” “Keen Sense (Any),” Level 2 “That Don’t Seem Right,” and 40 Perception - You ignore fatigue penalties to Perception based tests. You roll twice and take either result when making Notice tests.
Fleet Footed, Tier 2 - Your AgiBonus counts as 1 higher for purposes of movement. Can be purchased twice.
Run and Gun, Tier 1 - You may attack and move using 1 Simple Action. You may use your Reaction to continue movement if you interrupted your movement with a Simple Action.
Improved Run and Gun, Tier 3, Requires “Run and Gun” - Run and Gun only requires you to expend a Free Action to continue movement. Halve the penalties to ranged attacks due to movement.
Conversationalist, Tier 1 - You may use Charisma instead of Perception for Insight if you are talking to the subject.
A Bit About A Lot, Tier 3, Requires 25 different skills - Reduce the penalty for not having the exact skill for a test by 20 to a minimum of 0.
Language, Tier 1,  May only be purchased during character generation. You are literate and fluent in a language. If you attain a skill rank of 4 or higher in a language after character creation, you gain this talent for free.
Tireless, Tier 2 - You may purchase this talent a number of times equal to the greatest value of your EndBonus or WilBonus. Each rank lets you ignore 1 increment of fatigue.
Tough, Tier 3 - You may purchase this talent a number of times equal to the greatest value of your EndBonus or WilBonus. Each rank gives your hit locations 1 maximum health.
Combat Reflexes, Tier 2, Requires 35 Agility or 35 Perception - When rolling initiative, roll twice and keep either result.
Unarmed Combatant, Tier 1, Requires any Melee skill at 3 - Your unarmed attacks deal +4 damage.
Combat Lifesaver, Tier 2, Requires Medicine skill at 1 - First Aid takes you 1 less Complex Action to perform to a minimum of 1 Simple Action.

Fatigue:

Fatigue capacity is 10*(EndBonus+WilBonus).
For every 10% (EndBonus+WilBonus) increment that is full, -5 penalty to all tests. In combat or similar situations, you ignore up to EndBonus/2 increments.
When this penalty reaches -30, -40, and -50, -1 to AgiBonus, StrBonus, and the penalty that the Defense skill or a Melee skill imposes on attackers to hit you is reduced by 5 to a minimum of 0.
When fatigue meets or exceeds capacity, make a +0 Control test at the start of your turn using Endurance or Willpower or fall unconscious.
Death when capacity reaches 20*(EndBonus+WilBonus).
Gain 6 fatigue for every 3 hours of light activity, 2 hours of moderate activity, or 1 hour of heavy activity.
1 hour of light activity = 2 fatigue.
1 hour of moderate activity = 3 fatigue.
1 hour of heavy activity = 6 fatigue.
Shock:
Shock is intense short-term fatigue that goes away shortly after combat and similar situations are over. When you take damage (after negation), you take twice the amount of fatigue (shock).
Gain 6 fatigue every time you take equal to or more than EndBonus in damage (after negation).
Gain 3 fatigue for every day you go without food. This does not go away until you have access to food.
Gain 18 fatigue for every day you go without water. This does not go away until you have access to water.
Remove ½ increment of fatigue fatigue every 4 hours provided you have food and water.
Remove ½ increment of fatigue for every hour of uninterrupted sleep. If you sleep for 8 or more hours, remove 3 additional increments of fatigue.


Health, Healing and Injuries:

A body part is considered lightly damaged if it has health between maximum to half; heavily damaged between below half to 0; or critically damaged if in the negatives.

Lightly Damaged - Part heals EndBonus/2 every 12 hours. A day spent mostly resting heals all light damage.

Heavily Damaged - Part heals EndBonus/2 every 24 hours. A day spent mostly resting restores additional health equal to EndBonus if a +0 Endurance test is made. A failed test only heals an additional EndBonus/2.

Critically Damaged - Make a +5 Endurance test at the end of your turn with a penalty equal to 5xCriticalLevel ignoring fatigue. A successful test stabilizes the part. If this test is failed with 3 or more DoF, the part loses 1 health + 1 for every 2 DoF past 3 (minimum 1). Health lost this way does not deal any additional damage to the head (no extra 1d10 damage).
>At -(EndBonus+WilBonus) a part is considered more or less useless:
>>Head - Loss of consciousness for 1d5 hours.
>>Body - You only have access to a single Simple Action per round and movement is halved.
>>Arm - Drop anything held in that hand. -30 penalty to tasks that require both arms.
>> Leg - +0 Gymnastics test or fall prone. AgiBonus counts as 1 lower.
>> For every part considered useless, the penalty that the Defense skill or a Melee skill imposes on attackers to hit you is reduced by 5 to a minimum of 0.
>At -2x(EndBonus+WilBonus) death occurs.

Critically Damaged (Stabilized) - Make an Endurance test every week with a penalty equal to 5xCriticalLevel. A successful test restores DoS/4 health.
Lingering Injury:

When a part is reduced to -(Endbonus+WilBonus) or below, make a +0 Endurance test ignoring fatigue. Additionally, if the damage could cause bleeding, start bleeding. Lose 1 Attribute point in each of that part’s associated Attributes per DoF/2. With 3 or more DoF, one of those Attributes loses twice the amount. With 5 or more DoF, more serious lasting injuries occur. If not permanent, these injuries heal after the part and Attribute loss have healed fully.

Head:
Charisma, Intelligence, Perception
1 - Major Bleeding and 1 other effect - Bleed at 3x the rate + an additional effect.
2 - Brain (25% Permanent, 0.1% absolutely no lingering injuries or Attribute loss), the Attribute points lost and further injury this causes cannot be healed if permanent, 
>> 1 - Total Paralysis of all non-essential parts of the body.
>> 2 - 1d5 extremities (includes head) paralyzed (if head, facial paralysis).
>> 3 - Blindness in 1d2 eyes.
>> 4 - Deafness in 1d2 ears.
>> 5 - Some issue that’s debilitating but not as bad as the stuff prior (Talk to your GM).
3 -  Throat (20% Permanent, 25% also Spine that is 25% permanent), Breathing, eating, and speech is arduous.
4 - Major Bleeding, Bleed at 3x the rate.
5 - Eye (20% Permanent), Loss of function.
6 - Ear (25% Permanent), Loss of function.
7 - Nose (25% Permanent), Loss of function.
8 - Mouth (20% Permanent), Loss/decrease of function. Speech is slurred and eating takes about twice as long.
9 - Reroll ignoring 1 to 4 (if those results are rolled, roll again).
10 - “Non Critical” Critical Damage, No lingering injury. Still bleeding though.

Body:
Agility, Endurance, Strength
1 - Major Bleeding and 1 other effect, Bleed at 3x the rate + an additional effect.
2 - Spine (25% Permanent), 1d5+1 parts paralyzed (if head, facial paralysis).
3 - Major Bleeding, - Bleed at 3x the rate.
4 - Respiratory (20% Permanent), Loss/decrease of function. Breathing becomes arduous.
5 - Digestive + Immune (20% Permanent), Loss/decrease of function
6 - Reproductive (25% Permanent), Loss/decrease of function.
7 to 8 - Reroll ignoring 1 to 3 (if those results are rolled, roll again).
9 to 10 - “Non Critical” Critical Damage, No lingering injury. Still bleeding though.


Arm:
Agility, Strength
All 25% Permanent
1 - Major Bleeding and 1 other effect, Bleed at 3x the rate + an additional effect.
2 - Shoulder, Loss/decrease of function. Counts as Body for stopping bleeding.
3 - Major Bleeding, - Bleed at 3x the rate.
4 - Upper Arm, Loss/decrease of function.
5 - Lower Arm, Loss/decrease of function.
6 - Hand, Loss/decrease of function.
7 - Fingers, Loss/decrease of function of 1d5 fingers.
8 - Reroll ignoring 1 to 3 (if those results are rolled, roll again).
9 to 10 - “Non Critical” Critical Damage, No lingering injury. Still bleeding though.

Leg:
Agility, Strength
All 25% Permanent
1 - Major Bleeding and 1 other effect, Bleed at 3x the rate + an additional effect.
2 - Hip, Loss/decrease of function. Counts as Body for stopping bleeding.
3 - Major Bleeding, - Bleed at 3x the rate.
4 - Upper Leg, Loss/decrease of function.
5 - Lower Leg, Loss/decrease of function.
6 - Foot, Loss/decrease of function.
7 - Toes, Loss/decrease of function of 1d5 toes.
8 - Reroll ignoring 1 to 3 (if those results are rolled, roll again).
9 to 10 - “Non Critical” Critical Damage, No lingering injury. Still bleeding though.


First Aid:

5 Complex Actions
3 Complex Actions if you have Medicine at Rank 4.
2 Complex Actions if you have Medicine at Rank 6.

Can only be applied if the body part has equal to or less than half health left.
Cannot be applied to stabilized critically damaged parts.
Cannot heal past half health.

-30 if in a terrible location/unsafe environment (filthy area/active warzone), +10 if in relatively normal conditions (safe location/subpar field hospital), +20 if in good conditions (decent field hospital), +30 and a free reroll on a fail if in best conditions (actual hospital).

1 health restored per DoS. Only the body part being treated regains health.

If the body part was critically damaged, -5 penalty per critical level and halve the amount healed. Cannot heal above -1. Stabilizes. If a permanent lingering injury was acquired and successful first aid is performed on a part, roll again to see if it was actually permanent.

If only attempting to stabilize a part or stop bleeding, 1 Complex Action (2 if Head or Body), +30 to the test, critical penalties still apply, no healing. Can always be done to any part bleeding or critical regardless of health.
Healing Attribute Damage:

Every 24 hours make a -60 test with that attribute. Restore up to your DoS.
Every failed test for an attribute gives a +5 bonus to the next test to heal that attribute until a successful test is made.

Extended Care:

Patients receive a bonus to their healing tests equal to 5x the provider's DoS.

The provider is subject to environmental modifiers and the critical level penalties of the patient.

Bleeding:

If hit with an effect that could cause blood loss and the damage decreases the condition of a body part to Heavily Damaged or worse, make a +0 Endurance test ignoring fatigue or start bleeding.

Multiple body parts may be bleeding at once.

If you are bleeding, you gain 6 fatigue at the end of your turn.

If a Simple Action is used to slow bleeding only 3 fatigue is gained.

If a Complex Action is used to slow bleeding, +30 Endurance test to not gain any fatigue, on a fail, 2 fatigue gained.

Fatigue gained this way is only removed via transfusions and natural healing. If no blood is readily available, fatigue gained this way recovers naturally at a rate of EndBonus/2 every 24 hours.




Combat:

Damage dice explode on an unmodified roll of a 10. This can happen indefinitely.
Penetration (Pen) is deducted from AV for the purposes of damage.
You may take 1 Complex Action or 2 Simple Actions on your turn. Attacking is a Simple Action.


If you have already attacked and attack again in the same round, the attack has a -30 penalty and the penalty that the Defense skill or a Melee skill imposes on attackers to hit you is reduced by 15 to a minimum of 0 until the end of your next turn.

Once per attack, you may replace the roll on a damage die with your DoS (up to 10).
 
Once per round you may ready or stow an item as a Free Action, otherwise it is a Simple Action to ready or stow items.
Ex: Preparing a magazine as a Free Action before using a Simple Action to reload and then using a Simple Action to stow the old magazine.
Reactions and Readied Actions:

You have 1 Reaction that you regain at the start of your turn if used. You may use your Reaction at any point in the turn order after your turn to perform a Simple Action provided you have a Simple Action available.

You may ready an action as a Simple Action, setting a specific trigger and Simple Action response. When the trigger is met you perform the response as a Free Action provided you are in the position to do so. Afterwards, the action is no longer considered ready. An action is also no longer considered ready at the start of your turn unless a Simple Action is immediately used to ready it again.

For the purposes of determining the chronological order of events when Reactions/Ready Actions are used, everyone attempting to act during that turn rolls initiative with the individual whose turn it is receiving a +3 bonus and those responding to triggers receiving a +6 bonus.
Movement:
Simple Action
3xAgiBonus - Walking. No Penalties.
6xAgiBonus - Jogging. -10 to tests primarily requiring Perception and Ranged attacks.
9xAgiBonus - Running. -20 to tests primarily requiring Perception and Ranged attacks.
12xAgiBonus - Sprinting. -40 to tests primarily requiring Perception and Ranged attacks.

If a Simple Action is taken during movement, you must stop moving.

You cannot move more than 12xAgiBonus in a round.

Penalties from movement actions last until the end of your next turn or until the end of your next movement action.

Once per round you may move into/out of cover or the prone position as part of a Simple or Complex Action. This does not actually let you move a significant amount (just enough to peek into/out of cover or get into/out of prone) unless paired with a move action. 
AoE Evasion:

Uses your Reaction (and Simple Action if you haven't made a movement action that round) to allow you to attempt to evade AoEs until the start of your next turn.

If you did not move or a Simple Action to move is unavailable, this test is done at a -15 with an additional -15 if you do not have your Reaction available.


You may use your reaction this way even if it is the first round of combat and you haven't taken your turn yet.

Evading requires both a successful test to act quickly and enough movement to get out of the blast range.

A failed test means DoF body parts are hit. 1d5+2 (max 6) parts are hit if you could not even attempt the test.

A part cannot be hit more than once by the same AoE attack, randomly determine another part if this is the case.


Acting quickly enough but not getting out of the blast range (not having enough movement left available):
You still take damage, but you're considered to be at the position at the end of your movement, i.e. you might have gotten into cover.
Simple Action aim is a +10 bonus to attacking a single target. Stacks up to 3 times. Only Single attacks can benefit 3 aim actions. (i.e. attack actions with multiple shots can only benefit from 2 aim actions). Benefits from aiming are lost after taking any action other than aiming.
Hit Locations (“Ones” digit of attack roll):
1 - Head (Damage to the head that is greater than your EndBonus does an extra 1d10.)
2 - Right Arm
3 - Left Arm
4 - Right Leg
5- Left Leg
6, 7, 8, 9, 0 - Body
Attack Modifiers:
+10 Single. A single shot.

+0 Semi-auto Burst. Shoot a number of times equal to the Semi-auto fire rate.

+(5x) Full-auto Burst. Allocate ammunition towards any targets within a 45 degree cone, rolling separately for each target once. DoS shots hit.
Ex: You have a Full-auto fire rate of 6 and shoot at 2 targets, allocating 4 (+20) rounds towards one and 2 (+10) at the other.
Damaging Armour/Cover:
Armour/cover loses 1 AV if the damage it takes is equal to or more than twice its current AV. If it takes equal to or more than 3 times its current AV in damage it loses 2 AV, 4 times it loses 3 AV, and so on. Any Pen from a weapon is applied before damage.
Fire and Being on Fire:
When hit with an effect that could reasonably set you on fire, -20 Agility test or that body part catches fire. +(5xCoverAV) bonus to this test, 8x if you were completely behind cover.

At the start of your turn, +10 Control using Willpower fear test or you spend your entire turn prone and screaming. -5 per part on fire.

At the end of your turn, every part on fire takes 1d5+1 damage that ignores most worn armour but can damage it. This damage increases by 1 every round spent on fire. You then must make a +0 Agility test with DoF additional adjacent parts also catching fire.

+0 Agility Simple Action to put out body parts. -5 per body part on fire. 1 body part stops being on fire per DoS.

Things like the flammability of worn objects can affect the difficulty of the Agility tests.
Suppressive Fire:
Complex Action

Does not benefit from aiming or the Single/Semi-auto bonuses.

Covers a 45 degree cone out to your weapon’s range.

Expends twice the amount of ammunition.

Shoot a number of times equal to ammunition expended at a -30 penalty for Single and Semi-auto.

For Full-auto, attack normally but at a -30 penalty. You allocate the total ammunition spent.
Suppression:
Triggered when subject to suppressive fire.
Triggered when shot at more than twice in a round (More than 2 separate attacks).

When you are subject to suppression, Control (Willpower) test with a bonus equal to 5x the AV any cover is giving you.
On a fail, penalty to tests using Charisma, Intelligence, Perception, Ranged, and Willpower equal to half of the highest Ranged attribute amongst those shooting at you until the end of your turn. 3+ DoF, penalty is the full ranged attribute. 5+ DoF, you just cower in cover/run to cover whenever you can act until the end of your turn (this can force you to use your reaction to move).

If you are suddenly subject to suppression and it is your turn, the effects last until the end of your next turn.

Effects from suppression do not stack.
Range Modifiers:
0 to 2m: +30
3m to 10m: +20
10m to 1/2 range: +10
1/2 range to 2x range: +0
2x range to 3x range: -10 and 0.9xDamage
3x range to 4x range: -20 and 0.8xDamage
4x range to 5x range: -30 and 0.7xDamage
5x range to 6x range: -40 and 0.6xDamage
Beyond 6x range: Minimum -60 and 0.5×Damage

If distance falls exactly on a range band, use the lesser band.
Ex: Something at exactly 1/2 range is +10 to hit.

Round down for damage penalties.
Full-auto Bursts:
In Full-auto bursts the first roll determines the initial location then each additional hit follows this chart:


Initial
Second
Third
Fourth
Fifth
Sixth and and Additional
Body
Body
Either Arm/Either Leg
Same Arm/Same Leg
If Arm was hit, Head.

If Leg was hit, Body.
Start at Second location on Head
Either Leg
Same Leg
Body
Body
Either Arm
Start at Second location on Arm
Either Arm
Same Arm
Body
Body
Head
Start at Second location on Head
Head
50% Body
50% Head
Body
Either Arm
Same Arm
Start at Third location on Arm


Cover AV Examples:
Reinforced Glass, Thin Metal, Wooden Planks - 4 AV
Storage Crates, Solid Doors, Trees - 8 AV
Engine Blocks, Jersey Barriers, Sandbags - 12 AV
Concrete, Stone, Makeshift Technical Armour - 16 AV
Hardened Steel, Bulkheads, APC Armour - 32 AV

Equipment:

Ammunition:
.22 LR and Similar - 1d10-1 Pen 0
9mm and Similar - 1d10+1 Pen 2
.45 ACP and Similar - 1d10+2 Pen 0
5.56x45mm and Similar - 1d10+3 Pen 4
7.62x39mm and Similar - 1d10+4 Pen 2
.277 Fury and Similar - 1d10+5 Pen 6
7.62x51mm and Similar - 1d10+6 Pen 4
.50 BMG and Similar - 2d10+10 Pen 8

Ranges for Firearms Classes:
Pistol - 25m
Pistol+ - 50m
Intermediate  - 100m
Intermediate+  - 150m
Heavy (~.50 BMG) - 300m

Fire Rates:
Most firearms have a Semi-auto rate of 3, 2 for larger pistols.
Full-auto rate is usually the rounds/min of a gun divided by 100 rounded down to the nearest whole number.

Example Firearms:
M16A2 - 1d10+3 Pen 4, 100m, S^/3^/-, Capacity 30+1
^When fired in burst mode: 3 rounds expended per shot, +10 to hit, DoS/2 rounds hit rounded up. Use the Full-auto chart to determine where additional rounds hit.
AKM - 1d10+4 Pen 2, 100m, S/3/6, Capacity 30+1
FB Vis - 1d10+1 Pen 2, 25m, S/3/-, Capacity 8+1
MP5 - 1d10+1 Pen 2, 50m, S/3/8, Capacity 30+1
Makarov Pistol - 1d10+1 Pen 2, 25m, S/3/-, Capacity 8+1
PKM - 1d10+6 Pen 4, 150m, S/3/8, Capacity (50 round belts, 100, 200, 250 in a can)
SVD - 1d10+6 Pen 4, 175m, S/3/-, Capacity 10+1
DShK - 2d10+10 Pen 8, 300m, S/-/6, Capacity (50 round belts, 100? in a can)


Example Explosives:
Defensive Grenade - 2d10+10 within 3m, 2d10+5 within 6m, 1d10+5 within 12m, 1d10 within 15m. Range StrBonusx4.

Melee Weapons (Mostly Placeholders):
StrBonus is added to the damage of all melee weapons unless otherwise stated.
Unarmed - 1d5-4 Pen 0
Very Small - 1d5-2 Pen 0
Small - 1d5 Pen 0
Medium - 1d10-1 Pen 0
Large - 1d10+1 Pen 0
Very Large - 1d10+2 Pen 0
